Police report slight surge in road traffic accident fatalities during the Independence holiday

Ass Comm Paul Nyathi
Eddie Zvinonzwa
 Zim Now Writer

There has been a decline in the 2024 Independence holiday accident statistics, with a fall in the number of road traffic accidents that occurred during the recent holidays, figures released by the Zimbabwe Republic Police show.

The report, however, shows a slight increase in fatalities as compared to 2023 statistics.

According to the police, a total of 100 road traffic accidents were recorded this year compared to 133 recorded during the same period last year.

Six fatal accidents were recorded against four the previous year while nine were killed, increasing from four last year, while those injured in 2024 are 25 against a record of 22 last year.

Related Stories
Seke Rd to close tomorrow as Vapostori 4ED carry o
Govt to introduce road cameras, breathalysers as i
15 die in head-on collision, hit-and-run under pro
In a statement, national police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said there were no major fatal accidents recorded, only fatal ones which include the one at the 166km peg along Harare-Bulawayo Road on April 18 around 11am.

“The police did not record major fatal road accidents during this year’s Independence Day holiday. A fatal road traffic accident occurred at the 166-kilometre peg along Harare-Bulawayo Road on 18th April 2024 at around 1100 hours in which three people were killed whilst one person was injured,” Ass Comm Nyathi said.

He also added that along the Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road, another fatal accident took place, killing one while three others were injured.

“Another fatal traffic accident recorded on Independence Day occurred at around 1640 hours and at the 29-kilometre peg along Bulawayo-Beitbridge Road. A motorist was killed whilst three passengers were injured when a Toyota Granvia vehicle veered off the road to the left, hitting the bunker before overturning once and landing on its wheels,” he added.

 