PRESS STATEMENT : 17TH NOVEMBER 2025 – ZRP UPDATE ON A FATAL ROAD TRAFFIC ACCIDENT AT THE 155 KILOMETRE PEG ALONG MASVINGO-BEITBRIDGE ROAD
Reference is made to the Zimbabwe Republic Police message on X platform regarding a fatal road traffic accident which occurred on 16th November 2025  at around 1720 hours at the 155  kilometre peg along Masvingo-Beitbridge Road. Four people were killed while 14 others were injured when a Scania bus carrying 26 passengers veered off the road and overturned before landing on its roof.

The injured victims were ferried to Rutenga clinic for treatment and were further referred to Neshuro Hospital for further management. The bodies of the victims were taken to Neshuro Hospital mortuary for post-mortem.

The names of the four victims will be released in due course once the bodies have been identified by their next of kin.

The Zimbabwe Republic Police extends  heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims who lost their lives in the road traffic accident.

Meanwhile, the Police reiterates that motorists should avoid speeding and obey all road rules and regulations to safeguard human lives. Drivers are encouraged to inspect the condition of their vehicle tyres, including the spare wheel, to ensure that they are in good condition and properly inflated to avoid road accidents.

Drivers should also check that windscreen wipers are functioning effectively, especially during the rainy season, to maintain clear visibility. Additionally, any cracked or broken wind screens should be promptly repaired or replaced, as they can significantly impair vision and increase the risk of accidents.

As the country approaches the festive season, the vehicle owners and drivers are implored to quickly remove all broken down   vehicles on the roads and assist to promote road safety.

Above all, it is in the interest of road safety for all vehicles to be regularly serviced and certified fit to be travelling on the roads. Road safety is a collective responsibility by all Zimbabweans. Therefore, passengers in Public Service Vehicles should play a key role by reporting reckless and errant drivers on the roads.

Passengers should not be harassed or threatened by drivers or conductors whilst their safety is at stake. During this rain period, drivers should not attempt to cross flooded rivers and bridges. The Zimbabwe Republic Police urges motorists to be responsible and work closely with law enforcement agents to curb road traffic accidents.

 

(NYATHI. P) Commissioner

Chief Staff Officer (Press and Public Relations)

to the Commissioner-General of Police

Police General Headquarters

