PRESS STATEMENT : 13TH AUGUST 2025 – 2025 HEROES AND DEFENCE FORCES HOLIDAYS ROAD TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STATISTICS
The statistics show that the total number of road traffic accidents increased from 149 to 196 and the number of fatal accidents rose from eight to 13. The number of people who died increased from 16 to 24  whilst those injured were 96.

Some of the road traffic accidents recorded during the Heroes and Defence Forces holidays were caused by reckless driving, mechanical faults, speeding and overtaking errors.

Two major  road traffic accidents were recorded during the period including a fatal road traffic accident which occurred on 11th August 2025 at around 0200 hours at the 283 kilometre peg along Mutare -Masvingo Road where six Zion Christian Church congregates were killed while 16 others where injured when a hired Quantum vehicle veered off the road and overturned before landing on its wheels. The congregates were travelling from Gokwe to Chimanimani.

Another fatal road traffic accident was recorded on 12th August 2025 at around 1300 hours at the 10 kilometre peg along Bindura-Shamva Road  where four people were killed while 17 others were injured when a rear left tyre of a Toyota Hiace kombi carrying 22 passengers burst. As a result, the kombi veered off the road  before landing on its wheels.

Meanwhile, two people were killed when a Toyota Hilux vehicle veered off the road and overturned before landing on its side at the 87 kilometre peg along Masvingo -Mbalabala Road on 11th August 2025.

In another road traffic accident which occurred on 12th August 2025 at around 1130 hours at the eight kilometre peg along Checheche-Rimai Road where a female juvenile (16) was killed after being run over by a Nissan Diesel UD40 lorry which was carrying river sand with four passengers on board. The victim, who was sitting in the loading box on top of the sand, had disembarked from the lorry while it was in motion.

Some of the road traffic accidents recorded during the period involved pedestrians who were hit by motorists while crossing or walking along the road. In one of the case, a pedestrian died on the spot after being hit by a Toyota Spade vehicle while walking along Delport Road in Hatfield, Harare on 12th August 2025 at around 2130 hours. In another road traffic accident, a pedestrian was injured after being hit by a Honda Fit vehicle while crossing High Glen Road near High Glen Complex, Harare on  11th August 2025 at around 1000 hours.

The Zimbabwe Republic Police applauds public service vehicle operators for their cooperation  during the period.

The Police reiterates that motorists should prioritize the servicing of vehicles to ensure they are fit and secure to carry passengers or goods on the roads. Drivers should avoid speeding and overtaking in situations which are not safe to do so. Members of the public are implored to wear reflective clothing to increase visibility at night. Above all, drivers should adhere to all road rules and regulations in order to curb the continuous loss of lives through road traffic accidents.

 

(NYATHI.P)  Commissioner

Chief Staff Officer [Press and Public Relations]

to the Commissioner-General of Police

Police General Headquarters

`