PRESS STATEMENT : 15TH AUGUST 2024 – HEROES AND DEFENCE FORCES HOLIDAYS ROAD TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STATISTICS
The recorded statistics show that the number of total road traffic accidents increased from 134 to 149 and the number of fatal accidents decreased from 12 to eight. However, the number of fatalities rose from 15 to 16 and injuries remained relatively consistent, with 76 reported in 2023 and 77 in 2024.

Some road traffic accidents recorded during the Heroes and Defence Forces holidays were caused by reckless driving, mechanical faults, speeding and overtaking errors.  For instance, in a fatal road traffic accident which occurred on 13th August 2024 at around 0645 hours at corner St Patricks and Seke Road, the accident was caused by an overtaking error after a Toyota Hiace kombi carrying 15 passengers tried to overtake a Mazda Bongo Van which was intending to turn right. Subsequently, three people were killed while 32 others were injured.

In another road traffic accident which occurred on 12th  August 2024, at around 2200 hours along Magadzire-Dazi dust road near Nyagoma Village, Tangwena, Nyanga, a Nissan Caravan kombi carrying 12 passengers overturned after developing a mechanical failure while ascending a steep hill. As a result, three people were killed while six others were injured.

side swiped with a with four passengers on board. Subsequently, the Toyota Hiace kombi went on to collide head-on, with a Nissan Caravan kombi  carrying 18 passengers. The accident occurred after the Toyota Hiace kombi tried to overtake the Mazda Bongo Van which was turning right.

The Zimbabwe Republic Police reiterates that motorists should be patient on the roads and avoid overtaking when it is not safe to do so.  Motorists should also prioritize the servicing of vehicles to ensure they are fit and secure to carry passengers or goods on the roads. Drivers should not speed in situations which are not safe to do so. Above all, drivers should adhere to all road rules and regulations in order to curb the continuous loss of lives through road traffic accidents.

 

(NYATHI.P)  Commissioner

Chief Staff Officer [Press and Public Relations]

to the Commissioner-General of Police

Police General Headquarters