ZRP Releases More Details On The Fatal Warren Park Robots Accident
iHarare
By iHarare Last updated Dec 17, 2023
The Zimbabwe Republic Police has released more details on the fatal Warren Park robots accident that happened last night. Tragedy Near The National Museum of African Liberation. It happened along the Harare-Bulawayo Road at the Warren Park traffic lights.

The Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has released more details on the fatal Warren Park robots accident that happened last night.

The accident occurred as dusk encroached, leaving social media users in pain. It happened along the Harare-Bulawayo Road at the Warren Park traffic lights. The accident scene was chaotic, as one kombi had half its top crushed while another had overturned.

ALSO READ: Tragedy Strikes: 10 People Die In A Kombi Accident Near Warren Park Traffic Lights

People were scurrying to the scene to rescue as many lives as possible, as some survived. One witness at the scene heartbreakingly recalled on X:

“Zvaitika in my eyes the yellow Combi aurayisa vanhu. I was behind the bus. We tried our best kubuditsa vanhu. One woman was vomiting blood. The only word she said was ko VANA VANGU, and she died after that. One woman lost two kids in my eyes.”

The Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) has confirmed the tragic incident and released the correct number of fatalities from the crash. Initial social media reports suggested that ten people lost their lives. However, the police clarified that six people perished while ten others sustained injuries.

They posted on X:

“The ZRP confirms a fatal road traffic accident which occurred on 15/12/23 at around 1800 hours along Harare-Bulawayo Road near National Museum of African Liberation, Harare, in which six people were killed whilst ten others were injured when a Toyota Hiace kombi with 15 passengers on board was involved in a head-on collision with a Nissan Caravan kombi with three passengers on board which was travelling towards Harare CBD.

“Subsequently, the Toyota Hiace kombi hit an AVM bus with three passengers on board, which was travelling towards Harare CBD. The Toyota Hiace Kombi had encroached onto the oncoming vehicle lane. The bodies were taken to Sally Mugabe Hospital mortuary for post-mortem whilst the injured were admitted at Parirenyatwa Group of Hospitals.”

Follow Us on Google News for Immediate Updates

The post ZRP Releases More Details On The Fatal Warren Park Robots Accident appeared first on iHarare News.