Source: NewsDay Zimbabwe

Date of Report: May. 20, 2026

Source URL: https://www.newsday.co.zw/local-news/article/200050109/100-perish-in-festive-season-accidents

Road accidents.

ONE hundred people died between December 15 and 26 this year as the number of fatal road accidents surged, compared to the comparative period last year.

In a statement national police spokesperson Commissioner Paul Nyathi on Monday said police recorded 2 412 road traffic accidents this year, double the number recorded last year, 1 211.

“In 2025, 87 fatal road traffic accidents were recorded, compared to 65 in 2024,” Nyathi said.

“The number of people killed stood at 100, compared to 77 in the same period the previous year.

“471 people were injured, compared to 401 during the same period in 2024.”

An analysis of the fatalities by road user category shows that passengers were the most affected, accounting for 44 deaths, followed closely by pedestrians, who accounted for 37 deaths.

Drivers accounted for 10 fatalities, while riders and cyclists recorded four and three deaths, respectively.

Two people travelling on scotch carts were also killed.

Keep Reading

Fresh demolitions hit Mbare

Police accused of killing Budiriro man

Fresh demolitions hit Mbare

Police accused of killing Budiriro man

Police expressed concern over the continued loss of life on the country’s roads, particularly during peak travel periods and urged motorists to exercise caution, observe traffic regulations, and avoid reckless behaviour.

ZRP has consistently attributed festive season accidents to factors such as speeding, driver fatigue, vehicle defects and disregard for road rules, calling on road users to play their part in reducing accidents and saving lives.

Nyathi said the most serious fatal road accident recorded during the period occurred on December 17, at the 185km peg along the Harare-Nyamapanda Road, in the Suswe area.

“A Honda Fit travelling from Mutoko to Kotwa, carrying 10 occupants, was involved in a head-on collision with a haulage truck travelling towards Harare. The collision resulted in the death of  the 10 occupants in the Honda Fit vehicle.

“A preliminary review of the road traffic accidents recorded on major highways across the country during the period points to recurring and preventable causal factors largely attributable to driver behaviour and vehicle-related issues, which resulted in multiple fatalities and numerous injuries.

“Most of the accidents involved head-on collisions, which were mainly due to vehicles encroaching onto lanes of oncoming traffic or engaging in dangerous overtaking manoeuvres.

“These actions demonstrate poor judgement, disregard for traffic regulations and failure to observe road markings.”

Nyathi said speeding was also identified as the major contributory factor in the reported accidents, frequently resulting in loss of vehicle control.

Several incidents involved vehicles veering off the road, overturning or colliding with trees or other stationary objects, particularly during early morning and night-time hours, he said.

“These crashes suggest that drivers were travelling at speeds beyond their ability to safely control their vehicles, a risk often worsened by fatigue or inattention,” Nyathi added.

“The analysis further shows that tyre bursts were a major contributing factor in a number of the fatal road traffic accidents, particularly those involving public service vehicles such as Toyota Hiace kombis.

“In these cases, tyre failure resulted in vehicles overturning, causing deaths and serious injuries to passengers.

“This trend points to poor vehicle maintenance, the use of worn-out or substandard tyres, overloading and failure to conduct routine vehicle inspections before embarking on journeys.”

Nyathi also pointed to overloading as a significant risk factor, saying it compromises vehicle stability, places excessive strain on tyres and reduces the driver’s ability to control the vehicle, particularly at high speeds.

“The police urges pedestrians to exercise caution on the roads and observe all road rules and regulations.

“The number of pedestrians killed during the period is disturbing. It is also sad to note that some pedestrians were struck by vehicles while walking on the road with earphones plugged  on cellphones listening to music.

“Pedestrians are reminded to avoid jaywalking and always use designated crossing points such as pedestrian crossings and traffic controlled intersections.

“No major road traffic accident involving public service vehicles was recorded during the period.”

The police urged motorists to “strictly adhere” to road rules and regulations.

“We call on drivers to act responsibly and be exemplary on the roads to safeguard lives as the New Year holiday approaches.”

Related Topics

Road Accidents

December

Paul Nyathi
