Source: NewsDay Zimbabwe

Date of Report: May. 20, 2026

Source URL: https://www.newsday.co.zw/local-news/article/200049023/road-traffic-accidents-top-zimbawes-death-statistics

“In the first quarter of 2025 alone, 15 263 accidents were recorded, marking a 15% increase from the 13 317 cases reported during the same period in 2024,” the report read

ROAD traffic accidents are now the third leading cause of death after HIV and Aids, and tuberculosis, according to a Parliamentary Portfolio Committee on Transport and Infrastructural Development report.

The committee cited statistics from the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) and Traffic Safety Council of Zimbabwe (TSCZ), indicating a significant rise in road traffic accidents across the country.

“In the first quarter of 2025 alone, 15 263 accidents were recorded, marking a 15% increase from the 13 317 cases reported during the same period in 2024,” the report read.

“Of particular concern was the surge in road traffic incidents during the Easter and Independence holidays, where 384 accidents occurred, compared to 286 the previous year, representing a 34% increase .

“Although fatal accidents slightly decreased during this period, injuries rose from 159 to 178.”

According to the report, ZRP also highlighted that 1 824 hit-and-run cases were recorded within the same timeframe.

The committee noted that road traffic accidents were the third leading cause of death after HIV and Aids, and tuberculosis.

“According to TSCZ, on average, more than 2 000 people die annually, while over 30 000 are injured, many of whom suffer lifelong disabilities,” the report indicated.

Keep Reading

Econet to use Buddie Beatz app to grow local music

Edutainment mix: The artist in the child policy formulation context

Edutainment mix: The artist in the child policy formulation context

Fact’s educational programme throws lineline to vulnerable groups

“The impact of road accidents extends beyond human suffering.

“The economic costs, including healthcare expenditure, loss of productivity, vehicle damage, and infrastructure repair, are estimated to be 3% of Zimbabwe’s Gross Domestic Product annually.”

According to TSCZ and ZRP, over 85% of accidents are attributed to human error and behaviour with common issues including reckless overtaking, fatigue, speeding and drunk driving.

“Transporters association representatives further informed the committee that passenger transport drivers often violate safety norms due to pressure to meet quota targets set by their employers,” the report noted.

“The ZRP reiterated that drivers in Zimbabwe also engage in distractions, such as using mobile phones, which divert attention from the road and increases the likelihood of collisions.”

The committee said it was informed by the Vehicle Inspectorate Department (VID) that fatigue, particularly among long-distance drivers, contributed to reduced concentration and poor decision-making.

“Weak enforcement at VID and ZRP inspection points, coupled with corruption, allows unroadworthy vehicles onto the roads, which resultantly sees these vehicles being involved in accidents,” the committee said.

The committee also questioned policing measures by the police, where they often engage in high speed chase with commuter omnibuses, putting the lives of other motorists and pedestrians at risk.

“The common practice of negotiating and accepting bribes completely negates the deterrent effect. It fosters a culture where offences can be overlooked and encourage repeat behaviour,” the committee added.

Related Topics

ROAD Traffic Accidents

HIV And Aids

ZRP

TSCZ
