Source: NewsDay Zimbabwe

Date of Report: May. 20, 2026

Source URL: https://www.newsday.co.zw/opinion-analysis/article/200050543/strict-prohibitive-measures-can-curb-road-traffic-accidents

Strict, prohibitive measures can curb road traffic accidents

EVERY year, at least 1,19 million people lose their lives to road traffic accidents with at least 20 million people suffering non-fatal injuries while others incur disabilities.

It is undeniable that road traffic injuries cause considerable economic losses to individuals, their families and the nation as a whole.

The cost of treatment may be prohibitive, the lost productivity for those killed or disabled can be unbearable.

In essence, road traffic crashes cost most countries 3% of their gross domestic product.

Two-thirds of road traffic fatalities occur among people of working age of between 18 and 59 years.

Zimbabwe’s road crash fatalities range between 2 000 to 3 000 per year, with a daily average of around seven deaths.

Many people continue to lose their lives in this country.

There are many reasons for the road carnage, chief among them being negligent driving, drunken driving, poor road network and lax and lenient laws.

Keep Reading

Zinara tightens screws on unlicensed vehicles

ED in tough Zanu PF balancing act

COP27: UAE and Egypt agree to build one of world's biggest wind farms

Bulk of our road network in sorry state: Govt

Many drivers do not take driving seriously, considering the multiple road breaches that continue to endanger the lives of people.

Mishikashika are contributing immensely to the increasing accidents especially in urban areas and the most painful thing is the intolerance and inconsideration of the drivers involved.

United Arab Emirates fines 30 000 AED (about US$8 100) for going through a red robot, a deterrent figure that disciplines reckless drivers.

It is a serious offence in the same country to obstruct traffic and the penalty is insufferable.

You rarely witness road traffic accidents in the Arab country as drivers are careful, considerate and quite alert.

Zambia is one country that does not condone reckless driving and it is rare to witness road traffic accidents in Lusaka.

The Transport ministry should do more to curb road accidents.

The behaviour of most drivers on the roads should be checked carefully and those found on the wrong side of the law should get deterrent punishments which should include hefty fines, bans, prosecution and even jail terms.

How can a kombi driver drive against traffic and we all remain quiet when there is danger to the masses?

Mishikashika can stop suddenly to pick up passengers and they have the temerity to block traffic, thus causing untold congestion in towns and cities.

We should advocate immediate arrest of such drivers and prosecution with deterrent fines or even jail terms.

It is high time we brought order on the roads and in the transport industry if we are to avert continuous loss of lives.

The Transport ministry should work hand in glove with the Justice portfolio to craft laws that bring order in the transport sector.

Let Harare be the Dubai of UAE in terms of order.

In many countries, it is a serious offence to drive without a valid driver’s licence.

Our country continues to witness unlicensed drivers perambulating the busy streets of towns and cities and many of them are untouchable.

Why are our laws so crooked to the extent of allowing such shenanigans to prosper at the expense of public security and health?

Anyone caught driving without a valid licence should face the full wrath of the law and deterrent jail terms should be imposed on such unscrupulous elements of society.

It is undeniable that our road infrastructure is tattered, with some potholes huge enough to drown a child.

The roads have become so badly damaged that they are impassable and it is a pity that even low-density suburbs are affected.

Where is the Zimbabwe National Road Administration when roads are in such bad state?

We cannot talk of vibrant economic development when we have dilapidated infrastructure.

Where are our respected councils when roads resemble streams of water through the city?

Please stop this unprecedented road carnage.

This is the time to act. The country deserves better.

Related Topics

Road Traffic Accidents

Mishikashika

United Arab Emirates

Zimbabwe National Road Administration
